John the reason I've come to see you is
because you've got the most enormous
collection of soup recipes I've ever
come across
you have soup on the menu every day here
don't you every day yes I find them very
filling and satisfying and super there's
some lovely titles like cabbage with
smoked bacon and carrot with coriander
and that lovely one tomato apple and
celery which is one of my own favorites
do you have any secrets that you can
pass on well of course the secret of the
success is basically always to buy
whatever is fresh in season if you don't
use the best fresh produce you're not
going to get a good soup so that's the
first thing you must always use what is
in season and what is best available on
the market but the method which we do
our soup is rather slightly different
because we don't cook our vegetables in
the stock we melt the four ounces of
butter and cook off quite gently the
eight ounces of chopped onions until
they're nice and gold so you always have
8 ounces of onions and four ounces of
butter
exactly horn answers but eight ounces of
onions and then you use two pounds of
vegetables for the soup we're going to
do today we've divided those 32 ounces
into three and we've got ten ounces of
apple ten ounces of celery and ten
ounces of tomatoes we've picked out
small tomatoes and left the tops on them
and we've also let the skins on them
and what you do when the onions are nice
and gold you throw all the vegetables
into the saucepan
and you add a quart of a pint of sherry
then you take a large piece of crease
proof paper and you wet it under the tap
and then spread it out over the
vegetables and slightly up the sides of
the saucepan and then put the lid on so
that they're sealed underneath the
greaseproof paper on a pletely sealed
now it's just like cooking them off in a
Turkish bath they're going to sit there
40 minutes sweating and simmering and
bubbling 40 minutes but all the goodness
is going to be retained there's no
escape none of the kind of flavors going
to escape and then at the end of the 40
minutes you take the lid off take the
paper off and just see that they're
cooked just slightly fallen add your
stop why do you add the stock afterwards
I mean I always cook my soups with a
stocking at the beginning well I've
found that you get more flavor now when
you've got the stock joined in with
vegetables then you liquidize your soup
don't you oh yes I always parallel with
liquid isin and then pass them through
us there you've got the skins and the
tops of the tomatoes in that's
presumably to give even more flavor even
more flavor
absolutely if you're doing an artichoke
soup for instance I never peel the
artichokes I'll scrub them because the
flavors in the skin then you must always
pass your soup through a sphere and best
way to pass them through a sieve is to
get a sea of course and then get a soup
ladle because the shape of the soup
ladle follows the contour of the sieve
and so when you're turning round and
round the soup will fall quite quickly
through into the saucepan just as we're
about to serve the soup which is piping
hot it's steaming we've been adding some
fresh
and so when you eat it you get this
lovely crunchy texture along with the
smooth a twirl of cream sprinkle on some
chives and it's ready to go in